---
title: "Adludio (F-K-A Future Ad Labs) (digital-spin)"
date: 2006-01-01
draft: false
categories: [ "seedrs"]
tags: ["seedrs"]
weight: 10
---

# [Adludio (F-K-A Future Ad Labs)](https://www.seedrs.com/digital-spin)

## Idea

### Introduction

We propose a new method of CAPTCHA which is engaging, simple, secure, and can include advertising. CAPTCHAs are those bothersome validations which are often required to complete an on-line registration form, or forum comment. CAPTCHAs are usually sets of distorted words which the user has to type before submitting a form. CAPTCHAs combat the increasing amount of spam generated by 'bots', clever pieces of computer code trawling the Internet inserting spam. As bots become more sophisticated, so CAPTCHAs become more complex.It is now sometimes impossible for humans to decipher CAPTCHAs. We introduce CAPTCHAs that we think are more engaging and simpler without compromising on security. We can also embed advertising with which the user interacts, promoting brand awareness. By changing CAPTCHAs to focus on tasks that only humans enjoy and are good at, we would allow for a more interactive and fun experience for users, reduce the amount of failed CAPTCHAs, and reinforce a brand message.

### Intended impact

There are over 200 Million CAPTCHAs completed successfully each day. However a significant number of unsuccessful CAPTCHAs are from genuine users who are prevented from completing forms because the CAPTCHA is too difficult. If this occurs frequently, a user tends to give up and leave the website. We refer to the amount of people that a website loses due to an ineffective CAPTCHA process as the 'attrition rate'.

We believe that our interactive CAPTCHAs will alleviate the irritation associated with the majority of the current CAPTCHAs by creating a fun experience that reduces the attrition rate and still offers all the security a website owner requires. Our CAPTCHAs would also incorporate advertising that engage users and allow for a substantial brand impact. Hosting our CAPTCHAs would provide a new revenue stream for website owners, while our advanced analytics would enable the adverts to be tailored to the users' specific geographical location, demographic and interests, regardless of the site it is being used on.

### Substantial accomplishments to date

Google Campus: <br>We have successfully been accepted at Google Campus London which gives us an excellent opportunity to interact within an innovative IT community and gives us the credablity to help sell our product.

Website launch: <br>Our website has been launched and we have created a social media presence on Facebook and Twitter.

Alpha testing completed: <br>We have completed the first stage of our Alpha testing for our demo CAPTCHAs. They are currently showcased on our website.

Beta testing registration: <br>Sign up for our Beta testing has begun. This includes registration for Advertisers and Web developers.

Introduction to new media Ad Agencies: <br>We have made contact with two influential figures in the digital advertising space who like our product and have agreed to mediate contact with potential clients.

### Monetisation strategy

We expect our business model to evolve as we progress. In the up coming months we hope to have two types of customers, advertisers and website owners.

Advertisers - <br>They would be charged a one off implementation fee and a basic subscription which will increase according to the effectiveness of the campaign (usually measured in click-throughs).

Website owners - <br>We would have three initial offerings.

Free: <br>We would allow use of our basic CAPTCHAs for free. These would be selected to include adverts or not. If they choose to include ads, the host would benefit from a new revenue stream that will be generated from the 'click-through' on the ads. In addition Digital Spin would make a small commission on the number of click-throughs. Our free CAPTCHAs are important to Digital Spin to help gather more information about spam and the sophistication of bots being used. This means that our security will continue to evolve and improve as the use of our free CAPTCHAs increase.

Premium: <br>This would be a subscription based service and will scale according to the level of analytics and security the vendor requires. If it forms part of an ad campaign then additional revenue could be generated for the website host for each click through, and Digital Spin would also earn a commission on each of these click throughs.

Bespoke design: <br>These would be custom designed CAPTCHAs that can be styled and provide a user experience which is fully integrated with the website theme. The fee structure would either be a one off design and development fee or a subscription based service (depending on the level of security and analytics selected by the web developer). This is currently a small part of our plan but we think will help us to lead this sector since we believe it is a unique offering in this field.

### Use of proceeds

Annual Budget <br>------------------------- <br>Seedrs Commission - 4,500 <br>------------------------- <br>Computer Equipment <br>------------------------- <br>2 x servers - 9,250 <br>1 x laptop - 800 <br>Adobe Illustrator - 570 <br> Adobe Photoshop - 680 <br>------------------------- <br>Marketing &amp; Advertising <br>------------------------- <br>Website costs - 460 <br>Advertising for opening - 900 <br>Brand development - 2,465 <br>Marketing &amp; business cards - 900 <br>------------------------- <br>Office Expenses <br>------------------------- <br>Annual rent - 7,200 <br>Holding deposit - 1,200 <br>Legal &amp; Professional Fees - 2,500 <br>Tel &amp; Internet - 740 <br>Postage &amp; courier - 90 <br>Printing &amp; stationery - 370 <br>Travel Costs - 925 <br>------------------------- <br>Remuneration <br>------------------------- <br>Freelance Developer - 16,650 <br>B Hoyle - 2,450 <br>J Dvoriankina - 2,450 <br>J Kotze - 2,450 <br>L C Murphy - 2,450 <br>------------------------- <br>Total - 60,000 <br>-------------------------

## Market

### Target market

Advertisers: <br>We would provide a novel advertising medium that allows advertisers to directly engage with users. Users would be presented with, and interact with, a particular brand image. By default the brand messaging, slogan, or offer, would be re-enforced upon completing the CAPTCHA through a human test of comprehension.

Brands: We would provide an advertising medium that automatically promotes brand awareness, and though the game-like reinforcing of a brand message in a fun way, users can be left with a positive brand sentiment.

Website owners: <br>Our purpose built and styled CAPTCHAs would be ideally suited to large, popular websites with a lot of web-traffic, who wish to have more control over the CAPTCHA process, allowing them a more seamless integration of their web theme and authentication process. The choice of free and premium options, would allow website owners to have control over the extent to which they want to monetise their CAPTCHAs while placing the website's security as a paramount goal.

### Characteristics of target market

Worldwide there are over 200 million CAPTCHAs completed each day. This number has grown dramatically and does not appear to be reaching saturation.

Re-CAPTCHA dominates, with approximately 95% of the market share. While their offering is free it can be difficult to decipher leading to a high attrition rate and has a 7% failure rate, which is a large number when considering 200 million. Once the success rate drops to 75%, users often give up and leave the site.

Visually impaired users, can use an audio alternative, but these typically lead to even higher attrition rates. Dr Sue Fowler at the Dyslexia Research Trust, states that people suffering from disorders such as dyslexia also have difficulty completing standard text based CAPTCHAs.

There are other non-text based alternatives to reCAPTCHA but we do not believe that they are able to be styled to a web site owners needs, include advertising in an engaging, interactive way, and are open to security issues.

### Marketing strategy

We have built a website which enables advertisers and website owners to contact us directly. We have already been in contact with website owners who are excited by our idea and are willing to run our CAPTCHAs on their sites during the Beta Testing phase. This we hope would further increase our web presence and visibility.

We are in contact with many other startup companies at Google Campus, and beyond, who all need a CAPTCHA solution. By offering a revenue stream to these startups we would ensure that we are visible among all young up-and-coming web startups and thus garner visiblity on their site during their marketing campaigns and subsequent growth. There are many events hosted at Google Campus which facilitate the introduction of tech startup products and services to industry leaders. We intend to take full advantage of this and demonstrate our CAPTCHAs at every possible events to make sure we can reach is aware of our service.

We have begun putting together an ad campaign called "Humans like to be engaged" which will aim to show that our CAPTCHAs are far prefered by users above traditional offerings such as reCAPTCHA. We also plan on building a complete set of statistical data highlighting the effectiveness of our CAPTCHAs routing out bots and stopping spam which will be used in this campaign. We will also be contacting digital media magazines and websites to help review our product and promote our ad campaign showcasing that we have a viable alternative to traditional CAPTCHAs. We are hoping that at least two articles will be written about our company in digital media and advertising magazines.

Finally we have managed to catch the eye of some experienced and influential new media advertisers, who are all impressed by our product and willing to mediate contact with, and introduce us to, potential clients. We will also be contacting brands and large corporations directly, seeking immediate investment, by demonstrating and showcasing our demo CAPTCHAs.

### Competition strategy

First mover advantage in UK: We believe our product offering is unique and new media advertisers will want to differentiate themselves by using our service.

Security: <br>We believe our CAPTCHAs first and foremost have to complete the job they are designed for, stop spam and automated registrations. Underlying our aesthetic charm we have already attempted to include fundamental security but plan to expand this in the future with a range of advanced detection and security features.

Easy of implementation: <br>We have tried to make the implementation of the CAPTCHA as easy as possible. We are confident that with a basic level of security it would only require a single line of code to be included on prospective vendors site. This is, to our knowledge, a first of a kind method and the simplest CAPTCHA yet to implement.

Quantitative skills: <br>Two of our team members have PhDs in data intensive subjects. We believe we are in a very strong position to optimise our offering using their quantitative skills and provide advanced analytic reporting.

Access to web startups: <br>We have access to many startups through Google Campus that will need our product and we want to encourage them to use it.

